components/cli/docs/reference/commandline/rmi.md, before:

---
title: "rmi"
description: "The rmi command description and usage"
keywords: "remove, image, Docker"
---

<!-- This file is maintained within the docker/cli GitHub
     repository at https://github.com/docker/cli/. Make all
     pull requests against that repo. If you see this file in
     another repository, consider it read-only there, as it will
     periodically be overwritten by the definitive file. Pull
     requests which include edits to this file in other repositories
     will be rejected.
-->

# rmi

```markdown
Usage:  docker rmi [OPTIONS] IMAGE [IMAGE...]

Remove one or more images

Options:
  -f, --force      Force removal of the image
      --help       Print usage
      --no-prune   Do not delete untagged parents
```

## Examples

You can remove an image using its short or long ID, its tag, or its digest. If
an image has one or more tags referencing it, you must remove all of them before
the image is removed. Digest references are removed automatically when an image
is removed by tag.

```bash
$ docker images

REPOSITORY                TAG                 IMAGE ID            CREATED             SIZE
test1                     latest              fd484f19954f        23 seconds ago      7 B (virtual 4.964 MB)
test                      latest              fd484f19954f        23 seconds ago      7 B (virtual 4.964 MB)
test2                     latest              fd484f19954f        23 seconds ago      7 B (virtual 4.964 MB)

$ docker rmi fd484f19954f

Error: Conflict, cannot delete image fd484f19954f because it is tagged in multiple repositories, use -f to force
2013/12/11 05:47:16 Error: failed to remove one or more images

$ docker rmi test1:latest

Untagged: test1:latest

$ docker rmi test2:latest

Untagged: test2:latest


$ docker images

REPOSITORY                TAG                 IMAGE ID            CREATED             SIZE
test                      latest              fd484f19954f        23 seconds ago      7 B (virtual 4.964 MB)

$ docker rmi test:latest

Untagged: test:latest
Deleted: fd484f19954f4920da7ff372b5067f5b7ddb2fd3830cecd17b96ea9e286ba5b8
```

If you use the `-f` flag and specify the image's short or long ID, then this
command untags and removes all images that match the specified ID.

```bash
$ docker images

REPOSITORY                TAG                 IMAGE ID            CREATED             SIZE
test1                     latest              fd484f19954f        23 seconds ago      7 B (virtual 4.964 MB)
test                      latest              fd484f19954f        23 seconds ago      7 B (virtual 4.964 MB)
test2                     latest              fd484f19954f        23 seconds ago      7 B (virtual 4.964 MB)

$ docker rmi -f fd484f19954f

Untagged: test1:latest
Untagged: test:latest
Untagged: test2:latest
Deleted: fd484f19954f4920da7ff372b5067f5b7ddb2fd3830cecd17b96ea9e286ba5b8
```

An image pulled by digest has no tag associated with it:

```bash
$ docker images --digests

REPOSITORY                     TAG       DIGEST                                                                    IMAGE ID        CREATED         SIZE
localhost:5000/test/busybox    <none>    sha256:cbbf2f9a99b47fc460d422812b6a5adff7dfee951d8fa2e4a98caa0382cfbdbf   4986bf8c1536    9 weeks ago     2.43 MB
```

To remove an image using its digest:

```bash
$ docker rmi localhost:5000/test/busybox@sha256:cbbf2f9a99b47fc460d422812b6a5adff7dfee951d8fa2e4a98caa0382cfbdbf
Untagged: localhost:5000/test/busybox@sha256:cbbf2f9a99b47fc460d422812b6a5adff7dfee951d8fa2e4a98caa0382cfbdbf
Deleted: 4986bf8c15363d1c5d15512d5266f8777bfba4974ac56e3270e7760f6f0a8125
Deleted: ea13149945cb6b1e746bf28032f02e9b5a793523481a0a18645fc77ad53c4ea2
Deleted: df7546f9f060a2268024c8a230d8639878585defcc1bc6f79d2728a13957871b
```

Commit message:

Improve `docker image rm` reference docs
Copies the improved description from the man page
to the online reference docs.

Signed-off-by: Sebastiaan van Stijn <github@gone.nl>
Upstream-commit: 89bc5fbbae3b0fc309e894707970fcf237a38d1d
Component: cli

components/cli/docs/reference/commandline/rmi.md, after:

---
title: "rmi"
description: "The rmi command description and usage"
keywords: "remove, image, Docker"
---

<!-- This file is maintained within the docker/cli GitHub
     repository at https://github.com/docker/cli/. Make all
     pull requests against that repo. If you see this file in
     another repository, consider it read-only there, as it will
     periodically be overwritten by the definitive file. Pull
     requests which include edits to this file in other repositories
     will be rejected.
-->

# rmi

```markdown
Usage:  docker rmi [OPTIONS] IMAGE [IMAGE...]

Remove one or more images

Options:
  -f, --force      Force removal of the image
      --help       Print usage
      --no-prune   Do not delete untagged parents
```

## Description

Removes (and un-tags) one or more images from the host node. If an image has
multiple tags, using this command with the tag as a parameter only removes the
tag. If the tag is the only one for the image, both the image and the tag are
removed.

This does not remove images from a registry. You cannot remove an image of a
running container unless you use the `-f` option. To see all images on a host
use the [`docker image ls`](images.md) command.

## Examples

You can remove an image using its short or long ID, its tag, or its digest. If
an image has one or more tags referencing it, you must remove all of them before
the image is removed. Digest references are removed automatically when an image
is removed by tag.

```bash
$ docker images

REPOSITORY                TAG                 IMAGE ID            CREATED             SIZE
test1                     latest              fd484f19954f        23 seconds ago      7 B (virtual 4.964 MB)
test                      latest              fd484f19954f        23 seconds ago      7 B (virtual 4.964 MB)
test2                     latest              fd484f19954f        23 seconds ago      7 B (virtual 4.964 MB)

$ docker rmi fd484f19954f

Error: Conflict, cannot delete image fd484f19954f because it is tagged in multiple repositories, use -f to force
2013/12/11 05:47:16 Error: failed to remove one or more images

$ docker rmi test1:latest

Untagged: test1:latest

$ docker rmi test2:latest

Untagged: test2:latest


$ docker images

REPOSITORY                TAG                 IMAGE ID            CREATED             SIZE
test                      latest              fd484f19954f        23 seconds ago      7 B (virtual 4.964 MB)

$ docker rmi test:latest

Untagged: test:latest
Deleted: fd484f19954f4920da7ff372b5067f5b7ddb2fd3830cecd17b96ea9e286ba5b8
```

If you use the `-f` flag and specify the image's short or long ID, then this
command untags and removes all images that match the specified ID.

```bash
$ docker images

REPOSITORY                TAG                 IMAGE ID            CREATED             SIZE
test1                     latest              fd484f19954f        23 seconds ago      7 B (virtual 4.964 MB)
test                      latest              fd484f19954f        23 seconds ago      7 B (virtual 4.964 MB)
test2                     latest              fd484f19954f        23 seconds ago      7 B (virtual 4.964 MB)

$ docker rmi -f fd484f19954f

Untagged: test1:latest
Untagged: test:latest
Untagged: test2:latest
Deleted: fd484f19954f4920da7ff372b5067f5b7ddb2fd3830cecd17b96ea9e286ba5b8
```

An image pulled by digest has no tag associated with it:

```bash
$ docker images --digests

REPOSITORY                     TAG       DIGEST                                                                    IMAGE ID        CREATED         SIZE
localhost:5000/test/busybox    <none>    sha256:cbbf2f9a99b47fc460d422812b6a5adff7dfee951d8fa2e4a98caa0382cfbdbf   4986bf8c1536    9 weeks ago     2.43 MB
```

To remove an image using its digest:

```bash
$ docker rmi localhost:5000/test/busybox@sha256:cbbf2f9a99b47fc460d422812b6a5adff7dfee951d8fa2e4a98caa0382cfbdbf
Untagged: localhost:5000/test/busybox@sha256:cbbf2f9a99b47fc460d422812b6a5adff7dfee951d8fa2e4a98caa0382cfbdbf
Deleted: 4986bf8c15363d1c5d15512d5266f8777bfba4974ac56e3270e7760f6f0a8125
Deleted: ea13149945cb6b1e746bf28032f02e9b5a793523481a0a18645fc77ad53c4ea2
Deleted: df7546f9f060a2268024c8a230d8639878585defcc1bc6f79d2728a13957871b
```
