components/cli/docs/reference/commandline/save.md, before:

---
title: "save"
description: "The save command description and usage"
keywords: "tarred, repository, backup"
---

<!-- This file is maintained within the docker/cli GitHub
     repository at https://github.com/docker/cli/. Make all
     pull requests against that repo. If you see this file in
     another repository, consider it read-only there, as it will
     periodically be overwritten by the definitive file. Pull
     requests which include edits to this file in other repositories
     will be rejected.
-->

# save

```markdown
Usage:  docker save [OPTIONS] IMAGE [IMAGE...]

Save one or more images to a tar archive (streamed to STDOUT by default)

Options:
      --help            Print usage
  -o, --output string   Write to a file, instead of STDOUT
```

## Description

Produces a tarred repository to the standard output stream.
Contains all parent layers, and all tags + versions, or specified `repo:tag`, for
each argument provided.

## Examples

### Create a backup that can then be used with `docker load`.

```bash
$ docker save busybox > busybox.tar

$ ls -sh busybox.tar

2.7M busybox.tar

$ docker save --output busybox.tar busybox

$ ls -sh busybox.tar

2.7M busybox.tar

$ docker save -o fedora-all.tar fedora

$ docker save -o fedora-latest.tar fedora:latest
```

### Cherry-pick particular tags

You can even cherry-pick particular tags of an image repository.

```bash
$ docker save -o ubuntu.tar ubuntu:lucid ubuntu:saucy
```

Commit message:

give `docker save` a gzip usage guide (#1678)
give `docker save` a gzip usage guide

Signed-off-by: Ao Li <la9249@163.com>
Upstream-commit: 95ce54a8deb9216dd726034bc77328c55ea613a2
Component: cli

components/cli/docs/reference/commandline/save.md, after:

---
title: "save"
description: "The save command description and usage"
keywords: "tarred, repository, backup"
---

<!-- This file is maintained within the docker/cli GitHub
     repository at https://github.com/docker/cli/. Make all
     pull requests against that repo. If you see this file in
     another repository, consider it read-only there, as it will
     periodically be overwritten by the definitive file. Pull
     requests which include edits to this file in other repositories
     will be rejected.
-->

# save

```markdown
Usage:  docker save [OPTIONS] IMAGE [IMAGE...]

Save one or more images to a tar archive (streamed to STDOUT by default)

Options:
      --help            Print usage
  -o, --output string   Write to a file, instead of STDOUT
```

## Description

Produces a tarred repository to the standard output stream.
Contains all parent layers, and all tags + versions, or specified `repo:tag`, for
each argument provided.

## Examples

### Create a backup that can then be used with `docker load`.

```bash
$ docker save busybox > busybox.tar

$ ls -sh busybox.tar

2.7M busybox.tar

$ docker save --output busybox.tar busybox

$ ls -sh busybox.tar

2.7M busybox.tar

$ docker save -o fedora-all.tar fedora

$ docker save -o fedora-latest.tar fedora:latest
```

### Save an image to a tar.gz file using gzip

You can use gzip to save the image file and make the backup smaller.

```bash
docker save myimage:latest | gzip > myimage_latest.tar.gz
```

### Cherry-pick particular tags

You can even cherry-pick particular tags of an image repository.

```bash
$ docker save -o ubuntu.tar ubuntu:lucid ubuntu:saucy
```
