components/engine/docs/installation/linux/ubuntulinux.md, before:

<!--[metadata]>
+++
aliases = [ "/engine/installation/ubuntulinux/"]
title = "Installation on Ubuntu "
description = "Instructions for installing Docker on Ubuntu. "
keywords = ["Docker, Docker documentation, requirements, apt, installation,  ubuntu"]
[menu.main]
parent = "engine_linux"
weight = -6
+++
<![end-metadata]-->

# Ubuntu

Docker is supported on these Ubuntu operating systems:

- Ubuntu Wily 15.10
- Ubuntu Trusty 14.04 (LTS)
- Ubuntu Precise 12.04 (LTS)

This page instructs you to install using Docker-managed release packages and
installation mechanisms. Using these packages ensures you get the latest release
of Docker. If you wish to install using Ubuntu-managed packages, consult your
Ubuntu documentation.

>**Note**: Ubuntu Utopic 14.10 and 15.04 exist in Docker's `APT` repository but
> are no longer officially supported.

## Prerequisites

Docker requires a 64-bit installation regardless of your Ubuntu version.
Additionally, your kernel must be 3.10 at minimum. The latest 3.10 minor version
or a newer maintained version are also acceptable.

Kernels older than 3.10 lack some of the features required to run Docker
containers. These older versions are known to have bugs which cause data loss
and frequently panic under certain conditions.

To check your current kernel version, open a terminal and use `uname -r` to
display your kernel version:

    $ uname -r
    3.11.0-15-generic

>**Note**: If you previously installed Docker using `APT`, make sure you update
your `APT` sources to the new Docker repository.

### Update your apt sources

Docker's `APT` repository contains Docker 1.7.1 and higher. To set `APT` to use
packages from the new repository:

1. Log into your machine as a user with `sudo` or `root` privileges.

2. Open a terminal window.

3. Update package information, ensure that APT works with the `https` method, and that CA certificates are installed.

         $ sudo apt-get update
         $ sudo apt-get install apt-transport-https ca-certificates

4. Add the new `GPG` key.

        $ sudo apt-key adv --keyserver hkp://p80.pool.sks-keyservers.net:80 --recv-keys 58118E89F3A912897C070ADBF76221572C52609D

5. Open the `/etc/apt/sources.list.d/docker.list` file in your favorite editor.

    If the file doesn't exist, create it.

6. Remove any existing entries.

7. Add an entry for your Ubuntu operating system.

    The possible entries are:

    - On Ubuntu Precise 12.04 (LTS)

            deb https://apt.dockerproject.org/repo ubuntu-precise main

    - On Ubuntu Trusty 14.04 (LTS)

            deb https://apt.dockerproject.org/repo ubuntu-trusty main

    - Ubuntu Wily 15.10

            deb https://apt.dockerproject.org/repo ubuntu-wily main

    > **Note**: Docker does not provide packages for all architectures. You can find
	> nightly built binaries in https://master.dockerproject.org. To install docker on
    > a multi-architecture system, add an `[arch=...]` clause to the entry. Refer to the
    > [Debian Multiarch wiki](https://wiki.debian.org/Multiarch/HOWTO#Setting_up_apt_sources)
    > for details.

8. Save and close the `/etc/apt/sources.list.d/docker.list` file.

9. Update the `APT` package index.

        $ sudo apt-get update

10. Purge the old repo if it exists.

        $ sudo apt-get purge lxc-docker

11. Verify that `APT` is pulling from the right repository.

        $ apt-cache policy docker-engine

    From now on when you run `apt-get upgrade`, `APT` pulls from the new repository.

### Prerequisites by Ubuntu Version

- Ubuntu Wily 15.10
- Ubuntu Trusty 14.04 (LTS)

For Ubuntu Trusty and Wily, it's recommended to install the
`linux-image-extra` kernel package. The `linux-image-extra` package
allows you use the `aufs` storage driver.

To install the `linux-image-extra` package for your kernel version:

1. Open a terminal on your Ubuntu host.

2. Update your package manager.

        $ sudo apt-get update

3. Install the recommended package.

        $ sudo apt-get install linux-image-extra-$(uname -r)

4. Go ahead and install Docker.

If you are installing on Ubuntu 14.04 or 12.04, `apparmor` is required.  You can install it using: `apt-get install apparmor`

#### Ubuntu Precise 12.04 (LTS)

For Ubuntu Precise, Docker requires the 3.13 kernel version. If your kernel
version is older than 3.13, you must upgrade it. Refer to this table to see
which packages are required for your environment:

<style type="text/css"> .tg  {border-collapse:collapse;border-spacing:0;} .tg
td{font-size:14px;padding:10px
5px;border-style:solid;border-width:1px;overflow:hidden;word-break:normal;}
.tg-031{width:275px;font-family:monospace} </style> <table class="tg"> <tr> <td
class="tg-031">linux-image-generic-lts-trusty</td> <td class="tg-031e">Generic
Linux kernel image. This kernel has AUFS built in. This is required to run
Docker.</td> </tr> <tr> <td class="tg-031">linux-headers-generic-lts-trusty</td>
<td class="tg-031e">Allows packages such as ZFS and VirtualBox guest additions
which depend on them. If you didn't install the headers for your existing
kernel, then you can skip these headers for the"trusty" kernel. If you're
unsure, you should include this package for safety.</td> </tr> <tr> <td
class="tg-031">xserver-xorg-lts-trusty</td> <td class="tg-031e"
rowspan="2">Optional in non-graphical environments without Unity/Xorg.
<b>Required</b> when running Docker on machine with a graphical environment.
<br>
<br>To learn more about the reasons for these packages, read the installation
instructions for backported kernels, specifically the <a
href="https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kernel/LTSEnablementStack" target="_blank">LTS
Enablement Stack</a> &mdash; refer to note 5 under each version.
</td> </tr>
<tr> <td class="tg-031">libgl1-mesa-glx-lts-trusty</td> </tr> </table> &nbsp;

To upgrade your kernel and install the additional packages, do the following:

1. Open a terminal on your Ubuntu host.

2. Update your package manager.

        $ sudo apt-get update

3. Install both the required and optional packages.

        $ sudo apt-get install linux-image-generic-lts-trusty

    Depending on your environment, you may install more as described in the preceding table.

4. Reboot your host.

        $ sudo reboot

5. After your system reboots, go ahead and install Docker.

## Install

Make sure you have installed the prerequisites for your Ubuntu version.

Then,
install Docker using the following:

1. Log into your Ubuntu installation as a user with `sudo` privileges.

2. Update your `APT` package index.

        $ sudo apt-get update

3. Install Docker.

        $ sudo apt-get install docker-engine

4. Start the `docker` daemon.

        $ sudo service docker start

5. Verify `docker` is installed correctly.

        $ sudo docker run hello-world

    This command downloads a test image and runs it in a container. When the
    container runs, it prints an informational message. Then, it exits.

## Optional configurations

This section contains optional procedures for configuring your Ubuntu to work
better with Docker.

* [Create a docker group](#create-a-docker-group)
* [Adjust memory and swap accounting](#adjust-memory-and-swap-accounting)
* [Enable UFW forwarding](#enable-ufw-forwarding)
* [Configure a DNS server for use by Docker](#configure-a-dns-server-for-use-by-docker)
* [Configure Docker to start on boot](#configure-docker-to-start-on-boot)

### Create a Docker group		

The `docker` daemon binds to a Unix socket instead of a TCP port. By default
that Unix socket is owned by the user `root` and other users can access it with
`sudo`. For this reason, `docker` daemon always runs as the `root` user.

To avoid having to use `sudo` when you use the `docker` command, create a Unix
group called `docker` and add users to it. When the `docker` daemon starts, it
makes the ownership of the Unix socket read/writable by the `docker` group.

>**Warning**: The `docker` group is equivalent to the `root` user; For details
>on how this impacts security in your system, see [*Docker Daemon Attack
>Surface*](../../security/security.md#docker-daemon-attack-surface) for details.

To create the `docker` group and add your user:

1. Log into Ubuntu as a user with `sudo` privileges.

    This procedure assumes you log in as the `ubuntu` user.

2. Create the `docker` group.

        $ sudo groupadd docker

3. Add your user to `docker` group.

        $ sudo usermod -aG docker ubuntu

4. Log out and log back in.

    This ensures your user is running with the correct permissions.

5. Verify your work by running `docker` without `sudo`.

        $ docker run hello-world

	If this fails with a message similar to this:

		Cannot connect to the Docker daemon. Is 'docker daemon' running on this host?

	Check that the `DOCKER_HOST` environment variable is not set for your shell.
	If it is, unset it.

### Adjust memory and swap accounting

When users run Docker, they may see these messages when working with an image:

    WARNING: Your kernel does not support cgroup swap limit. WARNING: Your
    kernel does not support swap limit capabilities. Limitation discarded.

To prevent these messages, enable memory and swap accounting on your
system.  Enabling memory and swap accounting does induce both a memory
overhead and a performance degradation even when Docker is not in
use. The memory overhead is about 1% of the total available
memory. The performance degradation is roughly 10%.

To enable memory and swap on system using GNU GRUB (GNU GRand Unified
Bootloader), do the following:

1. Log into Ubuntu as a user with `sudo` privileges.

2. Edit the `/etc/default/grub` file.

3. Set the `GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX` value as follows:

        GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX="cgroup_enable=memory swapaccount=1"

4. Save and close the file.

5. Update GRUB.

        $ sudo update-grub

6. Reboot your system.


### Enable UFW forwarding

If you use [UFW (Uncomplicated Firewall)](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UFW)
on the same host as you run Docker, you'll need to do additional configuration.
Docker uses a bridge to manage container networking. By default, UFW drops all
forwarding traffic. As a result, for Docker to run when UFW is
enabled, you must set UFW's forwarding policy appropriately.

Also, UFW's default set of rules denies all incoming traffic. If you want to
reach your containers from another host allow incoming connections on the Docker
port. The Docker port defaults to `2376` if TLS is enabled or `2375` when it is
not. If TLS is not enabled, communication is unencrypted. By default, Docker
runs without TLS enabled.

To configure UFW and allow incoming connections on the Docker port:

1. Log into Ubuntu as a user with `sudo` privileges.

2. Verify that UFW is installed and enabled.

        $ sudo ufw status

3. Open the `/etc/default/ufw` file for editing.

        $ sudo nano /etc/default/ufw

4. Set the `DEFAULT_FORWARD_POLICY` policy to:

        DEFAULT_FORWARD_POLICY="ACCEPT"

5. Save and close the file.

6. Reload UFW to use the new setting.

        $ sudo ufw reload

7. Allow incoming connections on the Docker port.

        $ sudo ufw allow 2375/tcp

### Configure a DNS server for use by Docker

Systems that run Ubuntu or an Ubuntu derivative on the desktop typically use
`127.0.0.1` as the default `nameserver` in `/etc/resolv.conf` file. The
NetworkManager also sets up `dnsmasq` to use the real DNS servers of the
connection and sets up `nameserver 127.0.0.1` in /`etc/resolv.conf`.

When starting containers on desktop machines with these configurations, Docker
users see this warning:

    WARNING: Local (127.0.0.1) DNS resolver found in resolv.conf and containers
    can't use it. Using default external servers : [8.8.8.8 8.8.4.4]

The warning occurs because Docker containers can't use the local DNS nameserver.
Instead, Docker defaults to using an external nameserver.

To avoid this warning, you can specify a DNS server for use by Docker
containers. Or, you can disable `dnsmasq` in NetworkManager. Though, disabling
`dnsmasq` might make DNS resolution slower on some networks.

The instructions below describe how to configure the Docker daemon
running on Ubuntu 14.10 or below. Ubuntu 15.04 and above use `systemd`
as the boot and service manager. Refer to [control and configure Docker
with systemd](../../admin/systemd.md#custom-docker-daemon-options) to
configure a daemon controlled by `systemd`.

To specify a DNS server for use by Docker:

1. Log into Ubuntu as a user with `sudo` privileges.

2. Open the `/etc/default/docker` file for editing.

        $ sudo nano /etc/default/docker

3. Add a setting for Docker.

        DOCKER_OPTS="--dns 8.8.8.8"

    Replace `8.8.8.8` with a local DNS server such as `192.168.1.1`. You can also
    specify multiple DNS servers. Separated them with spaces, for example:

        --dns 8.8.8.8 --dns 192.168.1.1

    >**Warning**: If you're doing this on a laptop which connects to various
    >networks, make sure to choose a public DNS server.

4. Save and close the file.

5. Restart the Docker daemon.

        $ sudo restart docker


&nbsp;
&nbsp;

**Or, as an alternative to the previous procedure,** disable `dnsmasq` in
NetworkManager (this might slow your network).

1. Open the `/etc/NetworkManager/NetworkManager.conf` file for editing.

        $ sudo nano /etc/NetworkManager/NetworkManager.conf

2. Comment out the `dns=dnsmasq` line:

        dns=dnsmasq

3. Save and close the file.

4. Restart both the NetworkManager and Docker.

        $ sudo restart network-manager
        $ sudo restart docker

### Configure Docker to start on boot

Ubuntu uses `systemd` as its boot and service manager `15.04` onwards and `upstart`
for versions `14.10` and below.

For `15.04` and up, to configure the `docker` daemon to start on boot, run

    $ sudo systemctl enable docker

For `14.10` and below the above installation method automatically configures `upstart`
to start the docker daemon on boot

## Upgrade Docker

To install the latest version of Docker with `apt-get`:

    $ sudo apt-get upgrade docker-engine

## Uninstallation

To uninstall the Docker package:

    $ sudo apt-get purge docker-engine

To uninstall the Docker package and dependencies that are no longer needed:

    $ sudo apt-get autoremove --purge docker-engine

The above commands will not remove images, containers, volumes, or user created
configuration files on your host. If you wish to delete all images, containers,
and volumes run the following command:

    $ rm -rf /var/lib/docker

You must delete the user created configuration files manually.

Commit message:

docs: add Ubuntu 16.04 "xenial"
Signed-off-by: Sebastiaan van Stijn <github@gone.nl>
Upstream-commit: 62e7fde80fde2efda14d2b60061106ea48715c50
Component: engine

components/engine/docs/installation/linux/ubuntulinux.md, after:

<!--[metadata]>
+++
aliases = [ "/engine/installation/ubuntulinux/"]
title = "Installation on Ubuntu "
description = "Instructions for installing Docker on Ubuntu. "
keywords = ["Docker, Docker documentation, requirements, apt, installation,  ubuntu"]
[menu.main]
parent = "engine_linux"
weight = -6
+++
<![end-metadata]-->

# Ubuntu

Docker is supported on these Ubuntu operating systems:

- Ubuntu Xenial 16.04 (LTS)
- Ubuntu Wily 15.10
- Ubuntu Trusty 14.04 (LTS)
- Ubuntu Precise 12.04 (LTS)

This page instructs you to install using Docker-managed release packages and
installation mechanisms. Using these packages ensures you get the latest release
of Docker. If you wish to install using Ubuntu-managed packages, consult your
Ubuntu documentation.

>**Note**: Ubuntu Utopic 14.10 and 15.04 exist in Docker's `APT` repository but
> are no longer officially supported.

## Prerequisites

Docker requires a 64-bit installation regardless of your Ubuntu version.
Additionally, your kernel must be 3.10 at minimum. The latest 3.10 minor version
or a newer maintained version are also acceptable.

Kernels older than 3.10 lack some of the features required to run Docker
containers. These older versions are known to have bugs which cause data loss
and frequently panic under certain conditions.

To check your current kernel version, open a terminal and use `uname -r` to
display your kernel version:

    $ uname -r
    3.11.0-15-generic

>**Note**: If you previously installed Docker using `APT`, make sure you update
your `APT` sources to the new Docker repository.

### Update your apt sources

Docker's `APT` repository contains Docker 1.7.1 and higher. To set `APT` to use
packages from the new repository:

1. Log into your machine as a user with `sudo` or `root` privileges.

2. Open a terminal window.

3. Update package information, ensure that APT works with the `https` method, and that CA certificates are installed.

         $ sudo apt-get update
         $ sudo apt-get install apt-transport-https ca-certificates

4. Add the new `GPG` key.

        $ sudo apt-key adv --keyserver hkp://p80.pool.sks-keyservers.net:80 --recv-keys 58118E89F3A912897C070ADBF76221572C52609D

5. Open the `/etc/apt/sources.list.d/docker.list` file in your favorite editor.

    If the file doesn't exist, create it.

6. Remove any existing entries.

7. Add an entry for your Ubuntu operating system.

    The possible entries are:

    - On Ubuntu Precise 12.04 (LTS)

            deb https://apt.dockerproject.org/repo ubuntu-precise main

    - On Ubuntu Trusty 14.04 (LTS)

            deb https://apt.dockerproject.org/repo ubuntu-trusty main

    - Ubuntu Wily 15.10

            deb https://apt.dockerproject.org/repo ubuntu-wily main

    - Ubuntu Xenial 16.04 (LTS)

            deb https://apt.dockerproject.org/repo ubuntu-xenial main

    > **Note**: Docker does not provide packages for all architectures. You can find
	> nightly built binaries in https://master.dockerproject.org. To install docker on
    > a multi-architecture system, add an `[arch=...]` clause to the entry. Refer to the
    > [Debian Multiarch wiki](https://wiki.debian.org/Multiarch/HOWTO#Setting_up_apt_sources)
    > for details.

8. Save and close the `/etc/apt/sources.list.d/docker.list` file.

9. Update the `APT` package index.

        $ sudo apt-get update

10. Purge the old repo if it exists.

        $ sudo apt-get purge lxc-docker

11. Verify that `APT` is pulling from the right repository.

        $ apt-cache policy docker-engine

    From now on when you run `apt-get upgrade`, `APT` pulls from the new repository.

### Prerequisites by Ubuntu Version

- Ubuntu Xenial 16.04 (LTS)
- Ubuntu Wily 15.10
- Ubuntu Trusty 14.04 (LTS)

For Ubuntu Trusty, Wily, and Xenial, it's recommended to install the
`linux-image-extra` kernel package. The `linux-image-extra` package
allows you use the `aufs` storage driver.

To install the `linux-image-extra` package for your kernel version:

1. Open a terminal on your Ubuntu host.

2. Update your package manager.

        $ sudo apt-get update

3. Install the recommended package.

        $ sudo apt-get install linux-image-extra-$(uname -r)

4. Go ahead and install Docker.

If you are installing on Ubuntu 14.04 or 12.04, `apparmor` is required.  You can install it using: `apt-get install apparmor`

#### Ubuntu Precise 12.04 (LTS)

For Ubuntu Precise, Docker requires the 3.13 kernel version. If your kernel
version is older than 3.13, you must upgrade it. Refer to this table to see
which packages are required for your environment:

<style type="text/css"> .tg  {border-collapse:collapse;border-spacing:0;} .tg
td{font-size:14px;padding:10px
5px;border-style:solid;border-width:1px;overflow:hidden;word-break:normal;}
.tg-031{width:275px;font-family:monospace} </style> <table class="tg"> <tr> <td
class="tg-031">linux-image-generic-lts-trusty</td> <td class="tg-031e">Generic
Linux kernel image. This kernel has AUFS built in. This is required to run
Docker.</td> </tr> <tr> <td class="tg-031">linux-headers-generic-lts-trusty</td>
<td class="tg-031e">Allows packages such as ZFS and VirtualBox guest additions
which depend on them. If you didn't install the headers for your existing
kernel, then you can skip these headers for the"trusty" kernel. If you're
unsure, you should include this package for safety.</td> </tr> <tr> <td
class="tg-031">xserver-xorg-lts-trusty</td> <td class="tg-031e"
rowspan="2">Optional in non-graphical environments without Unity/Xorg.
<b>Required</b> when running Docker on machine with a graphical environment.
<br>
<br>To learn more about the reasons for these packages, read the installation
instructions for backported kernels, specifically the <a
href="https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kernel/LTSEnablementStack" target="_blank">LTS
Enablement Stack</a> &mdash; refer to note 5 under each version.
</td> </tr>
<tr> <td class="tg-031">libgl1-mesa-glx-lts-trusty</td> </tr> </table> &nbsp;

To upgrade your kernel and install the additional packages, do the following:

1. Open a terminal on your Ubuntu host.

2. Update your package manager.

        $ sudo apt-get update

3. Install both the required and optional packages.

        $ sudo apt-get install linux-image-generic-lts-trusty

    Depending on your environment, you may install more as described in the preceding table.

4. Reboot your host.

        $ sudo reboot

5. After your system reboots, go ahead and install Docker.

## Install

Make sure you have installed the prerequisites for your Ubuntu version.

Then,
install Docker using the following:

1. Log into your Ubuntu installation as a user with `sudo` privileges.

2. Update your `APT` package index.

        $ sudo apt-get update

3. Install Docker.

        $ sudo apt-get install docker-engine

4. Start the `docker` daemon.

        $ sudo service docker start

5. Verify `docker` is installed correctly.

        $ sudo docker run hello-world

    This command downloads a test image and runs it in a container. When the
    container runs, it prints an informational message. Then, it exits.

## Optional configurations

This section contains optional procedures for configuring your Ubuntu to work
better with Docker.

* [Create a docker group](#create-a-docker-group)
* [Adjust memory and swap accounting](#adjust-memory-and-swap-accounting)
* [Enable UFW forwarding](#enable-ufw-forwarding)
* [Configure a DNS server for use by Docker](#configure-a-dns-server-for-use-by-docker)
* [Configure Docker to start on boot](#configure-docker-to-start-on-boot)

### Create a Docker group		

The `docker` daemon binds to a Unix socket instead of a TCP port. By default
that Unix socket is owned by the user `root` and other users can access it with
`sudo`. For this reason, `docker` daemon always runs as the `root` user.

To avoid having to use `sudo` when you use the `docker` command, create a Unix
group called `docker` and add users to it. When the `docker` daemon starts, it
makes the ownership of the Unix socket read/writable by the `docker` group.

>**Warning**: The `docker` group is equivalent to the `root` user; For details
>on how this impacts security in your system, see [*Docker Daemon Attack
>Surface*](../../security/security.md#docker-daemon-attack-surface) for details.

To create the `docker` group and add your user:

1. Log into Ubuntu as a user with `sudo` privileges.

    This procedure assumes you log in as the `ubuntu` user.

2. Create the `docker` group.

        $ sudo groupadd docker

3. Add your user to `docker` group.

        $ sudo usermod -aG docker ubuntu

4. Log out and log back in.

    This ensures your user is running with the correct permissions.

5. Verify your work by running `docker` without `sudo`.

        $ docker run hello-world

	If this fails with a message similar to this:

		Cannot connect to the Docker daemon. Is 'docker daemon' running on this host?

	Check that the `DOCKER_HOST` environment variable is not set for your shell.
	If it is, unset it.

### Adjust memory and swap accounting

When users run Docker, they may see these messages when working with an image:

    WARNING: Your kernel does not support cgroup swap limit. WARNING: Your
    kernel does not support swap limit capabilities. Limitation discarded.

To prevent these messages, enable memory and swap accounting on your
system.  Enabling memory and swap accounting does induce both a memory
overhead and a performance degradation even when Docker is not in
use. The memory overhead is about 1% of the total available
memory. The performance degradation is roughly 10%.

To enable memory and swap on system using GNU GRUB (GNU GRand Unified
Bootloader), do the following:

1. Log into Ubuntu as a user with `sudo` privileges.

2. Edit the `/etc/default/grub` file.

3. Set the `GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX` value as follows:

        GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX="cgroup_enable=memory swapaccount=1"

4. Save and close the file.

5. Update GRUB.

        $ sudo update-grub

6. Reboot your system.


### Enable UFW forwarding

If you use [UFW (Uncomplicated Firewall)](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UFW)
on the same host as you run Docker, you'll need to do additional configuration.
Docker uses a bridge to manage container networking. By default, UFW drops all
forwarding traffic. As a result, for Docker to run when UFW is
enabled, you must set UFW's forwarding policy appropriately.

Also, UFW's default set of rules denies all incoming traffic. If you want to
reach your containers from another host allow incoming connections on the Docker
port. The Docker port defaults to `2376` if TLS is enabled or `2375` when it is
not. If TLS is not enabled, communication is unencrypted. By default, Docker
runs without TLS enabled.

To configure UFW and allow incoming connections on the Docker port:

1. Log into Ubuntu as a user with `sudo` privileges.

2. Verify that UFW is installed and enabled.

        $ sudo ufw status

3. Open the `/etc/default/ufw` file for editing.

        $ sudo nano /etc/default/ufw

4. Set the `DEFAULT_FORWARD_POLICY` policy to:

        DEFAULT_FORWARD_POLICY="ACCEPT"

5. Save and close the file.

6. Reload UFW to use the new setting.

        $ sudo ufw reload

7. Allow incoming connections on the Docker port.

        $ sudo ufw allow 2375/tcp

### Configure a DNS server for use by Docker

Systems that run Ubuntu or an Ubuntu derivative on the desktop typically use
`127.0.0.1` as the default `nameserver` in `/etc/resolv.conf` file. The
NetworkManager also sets up `dnsmasq` to use the real DNS servers of the
connection and sets up `nameserver 127.0.0.1` in /`etc/resolv.conf`.

When starting containers on desktop machines with these configurations, Docker
users see this warning:

    WARNING: Local (127.0.0.1) DNS resolver found in resolv.conf and containers
    can't use it. Using default external servers : [8.8.8.8 8.8.4.4]

The warning occurs because Docker containers can't use the local DNS nameserver.
Instead, Docker defaults to using an external nameserver.

To avoid this warning, you can specify a DNS server for use by Docker
containers. Or, you can disable `dnsmasq` in NetworkManager. Though, disabling
`dnsmasq` might make DNS resolution slower on some networks.

The instructions below describe how to configure the Docker daemon
running on Ubuntu 14.10 or below. Ubuntu 15.04 and above use `systemd`
as the boot and service manager. Refer to [control and configure Docker
with systemd](../../admin/systemd.md#custom-docker-daemon-options) to
configure a daemon controlled by `systemd`.

To specify a DNS server for use by Docker:

1. Log into Ubuntu as a user with `sudo` privileges.

2. Open the `/etc/default/docker` file for editing.

        $ sudo nano /etc/default/docker

3. Add a setting for Docker.

        DOCKER_OPTS="--dns 8.8.8.8"

    Replace `8.8.8.8` with a local DNS server such as `192.168.1.1`. You can also
    specify multiple DNS servers. Separated them with spaces, for example:

        --dns 8.8.8.8 --dns 192.168.1.1

    >**Warning**: If you're doing this on a laptop which connects to various
    >networks, make sure to choose a public DNS server.

4. Save and close the file.

5. Restart the Docker daemon.

        $ sudo restart docker


&nbsp;
&nbsp;

**Or, as an alternative to the previous procedure,** disable `dnsmasq` in
NetworkManager (this might slow your network).

1. Open the `/etc/NetworkManager/NetworkManager.conf` file for editing.

        $ sudo nano /etc/NetworkManager/NetworkManager.conf

2. Comment out the `dns=dnsmasq` line:

        dns=dnsmasq

3. Save and close the file.

4. Restart both the NetworkManager and Docker.

        $ sudo restart network-manager
        $ sudo restart docker

### Configure Docker to start on boot

Ubuntu uses `systemd` as its boot and service manager `15.04` onwards and `upstart`
for versions `14.10` and below.

For `15.04` and up, to configure the `docker` daemon to start on boot, run

    $ sudo systemctl enable docker

For `14.10` and below the above installation method automatically configures `upstart`
to start the docker daemon on boot

## Upgrade Docker

To install the latest version of Docker with `apt-get`:

    $ sudo apt-get upgrade docker-engine

## Uninstallation

To uninstall the Docker package:

    $ sudo apt-get purge docker-engine

To uninstall the Docker package and dependencies that are no longer needed:

    $ sudo apt-get autoremove --purge docker-engine

The above commands will not remove images, containers, volumes, or user created
configuration files on your host. If you wish to delete all images, containers,
and volumes run the following command:

    $ rm -rf /var/lib/docker

You must delete the user created configuration files manually.
