components/cli/man/src/image/import.md, before:

Create a new filesystem image from the contents of a tarball (`.tar`,
`.tar.gz`, `.tgz`, `.bzip`, `.tar.xz`, `.txz`) into it, then optionally tag it.


# EXAMPLES

## Import from a remote location

    # docker image import http://example.com/exampleimage.tgz example/imagerepo

## Import from a local file

Import to docker via pipe and stdin:

    # cat exampleimage.tgz | docker image import - example/imagelocal

Import with a commit message. 

    # cat exampleimage.tgz | docker image import --message "New image imported from tarball" - exampleimagelocal:new

Import to a Docker image from a local file.

    # docker image import /path/to/exampleimage.tgz 


## Import from a local file and tag

Import to docker via pipe and stdin:

    # cat exampleimageV2.tgz | docker image import - example/imagelocal:V-2.0

## Import from a local directory

    # tar -c . | docker image import - exampleimagedir

## Apply specified Dockerfile instructions while importing the image
This example sets the docker image ENV variable DEBUG to true by default.

    # tar -c . | docker image import -c="ENV DEBUG true" - exampleimagedir

# See also
**docker-export(1)** to export the contents of a filesystem as a tar archive to STDOUT.

Commit message:

LCOW: --platform on import (already in API)
Signed-off-by: John Howard <jhoward@microsoft.com>
(cherry picked from commit b55a0b681fb9592da0de4b770b682d1493c73038)
Signed-off-by: Sebastiaan van Stijn <github@gone.nl>
Upstream-commit: dd2f13bed4347e075da494c8635aa148baa5cd9d
Component: cli

components/cli/man/src/image/import.md, after:

Create a new filesystem image from the contents of a tarball (`.tar`,
`.tar.gz`, `.tgz`, `.bzip`, `.tar.xz`, `.txz`) into it, then optionally tag it.


# EXAMPLES

## Import from a remote location

    # docker image import http://example.com/exampleimage.tgz example/imagerepo

## Import from a local file

Import to docker via pipe and stdin:

    # cat exampleimage.tgz | docker image import - example/imagelocal

Import with a commit message. 

    # cat exampleimage.tgz | docker image import --message "New image imported from tarball" - exampleimagelocal:new

Import to a Docker image from a local file.

    # docker image import /path/to/exampleimage.tgz 


## Import from a local file and tag

Import to docker via pipe and stdin:

    # cat exampleimageV2.tgz | docker image import - example/imagelocal:V-2.0

## Import from a local directory

    # tar -c . | docker image import - exampleimagedir

## Apply specified Dockerfile instructions while importing the image
This example sets the docker image ENV variable DEBUG to true by default.

    # tar -c . | docker image import -c="ENV DEBUG true" - exampleimagedir

## When the daemon supports multiple operating systems
If the daemon supports multiple operating systems, and the image being imported
does not match the default operating system, it may be necessary to add
`--platform`. This would be necessary when importing a Linux image into a Windows
daemon.

    # docker image import --platform=linux .\linuximage.tar

# See also
**docker-export(1)** to export the contents of a filesystem as a tar archive to STDOUT.
