components/engine/docs/reference/commandline/export.md, before:

---
title: "export"
description: "The export command description and usage"
keywords: "export, file, system, container"
---

<!-- This file is maintained within the docker/docker Github
     repository at https://github.com/docker/docker/. Make all
     pull requests against that repo. If you see this file in
     another repository, consider it read-only there, as it will
     periodically be overwritten by the definitive file. Pull
     requests which include edits to this file in other repositories
     will be rejected.
-->

# export

```markdown
Usage:  docker export [OPTIONS] CONTAINER

Export a container's filesystem as a tar archive

Options:
      --help            Print usage
  -o, --output string   Write to a file, instead of STDOUT
```

The `docker export` command does not export the contents of volumes associated
with the container. If a volume is mounted on top of an existing directory in
the container, `docker export` will export the contents of the *underlying*
directory, not the contents of the volume.

Refer to [Backup, restore, or migrate data
volumes](https://docs.docker.com/engine/tutorials/dockervolumes/#backup-restore-or-migrate-data-volumes) in
the user guide for examples on exporting data in a volume.

## Examples

    $ docker export red_panda > latest.tar

Or

    $ docker export --output="latest.tar" red_panda

Commit message:

Standardized formatting of CLI reference commands
Command name should be a H1

Only Description, Examples, and Related Commands should be H2

Changed 'Related information' heading to 'Related commands' since 99% it is only linking commands

Added some examples where relevant

Signed-off-by: Misty Stanley-Jones <misty@docker.com>
Upstream-commit: 52df69f00d966904ba230dc2e3a0646cc52b7688
Component: engine

components/engine/docs/reference/commandline/export.md, after:

---
title: "export"
description: "The export command description and usage"
keywords: "export, file, system, container"
---

<!-- This file is maintained within the docker/docker Github
     repository at https://github.com/docker/docker/. Make all
     pull requests against that repo. If you see this file in
     another repository, consider it read-only there, as it will
     periodically be overwritten by the definitive file. Pull
     requests which include edits to this file in other repositories
     will be rejected.
-->

# export

```markdown
Usage:  docker export [OPTIONS] CONTAINER

Export a container's filesystem as a tar archive

Options:
      --help            Print usage
  -o, --output string   Write to a file, instead of STDOUT
```

## Description

The `docker export` command does not export the contents of volumes associated
with the container. If a volume is mounted on top of an existing directory in
the container, `docker export` will export the contents of the *underlying*
directory, not the contents of the volume.

Refer to [Backup, restore, or migrate data volumes](https://docs.docker.com/engine/tutorials/dockervolumes/#backup-restore-or-migrate-data-volumes)
in the user guide for examples on exporting data in a volume.

## Examples

Each of these commands has the same result.

```bash
$ docker export red_panda > latest.tar
```

```bash
$ docker export --output="latest.tar" red_panda
```
