components/engine/docs/reference/commandline/plugin_disable.md, before:

---
title: "plugin disable"
description: "the plugin disable command description and usage"
keywords: "plugin, disable"
---

<!-- This file is maintained within the docker/docker Github
     repository at https://github.com/docker/docker/. Make all
     pull requests against that repo. If you see this file in
     another repository, consider it read-only there, as it will
     periodically be overwritten by the definitive file. Pull
     requests which include edits to this file in other repositories
     will be rejected.
-->

# plugin disable

```markdown
Usage:  docker plugin disable PLUGIN

Disable a plugin

Options:
      --help   Print usage
```

Disables a plugin. The plugin must be installed before it can be disabled,
see [`docker plugin install`](plugin_install.md).


The following example shows that the `no-remove` plugin is installed
and enabled:

```bash
$ docker plugin ls

NAME                  TAG                 DESCRIPTION                ENABLED
tiborvass/no-remove   latest              A test plugin for Docker   true
```

To disable the plugin, use the following command:

```bash
$ docker plugin disable tiborvass/no-remove

tiborvass/no-remove

$ docker plugin ls

NAME                  TAG                 DESCRIPTION                ENABLED
tiborvass/no-remove   latest              A test plugin for Docker   false
```

## Related information

* [plugin create](plugin_create.md)
* [plugin enable](plugin_enable.md)
* [plugin inspect](plugin_inspect.md)
* [plugin install](plugin_install.md)
* [plugin ls](plugin_ls.md)
* [plugin push](plugin_push.md)
* [plugin rm](plugin_rm.md)
* [plugin set](plugin_set.md)

Commit message:

Enforce zero plugin refcount during disable.
When plugins have a positive refcount, they were not allowed to be
removed. However, plugins could still be disabled when volumes
referenced it and containers using them were running.

This change fixes that by enforcing plugin refcount during disable.
A "force" disable option is also added to ignore reference refcounting.

Signed-off-by: Anusha Ragunathan <anusha@docker.com>
Upstream-commit: 8cb2229cd18c53bdbf36301f26db565a50027d6a
Component: engine

components/engine/docs/reference/commandline/plugin_disable.md, after:

---
title: "plugin disable"
description: "the plugin disable command description and usage"
keywords: "plugin, disable"
---

<!-- This file is maintained within the docker/docker Github
     repository at https://github.com/docker/docker/. Make all
     pull requests against that repo. If you see this file in
     another repository, consider it read-only there, as it will
     periodically be overwritten by the definitive file. Pull
     requests which include edits to this file in other repositories
     will be rejected.
-->

# plugin disable

```markdown
Usage:  docker plugin disable PLUGIN

Disable a plugin

Options:
  -f, --force   Force the disable of an active plugin
      --help    Print usage
```

Disables a plugin. The plugin must be installed before it can be disabled,
see [`docker plugin install`](plugin_install.md). Without the `-f` option,
a plugin that has references (eg, volumes, networks) cannot be disabled.


The following example shows that the `no-remove` plugin is installed
and enabled:

```bash
$ docker plugin ls

NAME                  TAG                 DESCRIPTION                ENABLED
tiborvass/no-remove   latest              A test plugin for Docker   true
```

To disable the plugin, use the following command:

```bash
$ docker plugin disable tiborvass/no-remove

tiborvass/no-remove

$ docker plugin ls

NAME                  TAG                 DESCRIPTION                ENABLED
tiborvass/no-remove   latest              A test plugin for Docker   false
```

## Related information

* [plugin create](plugin_create.md)
* [plugin enable](plugin_enable.md)
* [plugin inspect](plugin_inspect.md)
* [plugin install](plugin_install.md)
* [plugin ls](plugin_ls.md)
* [plugin push](plugin_push.md)
* [plugin rm](plugin_rm.md)
* [plugin set](plugin_set.md)
