components/engine/docs/reference/commandline/rmi.md, before:

<!--[metadata]>
+++
title = "rmi"
description = "The rmi command description and usage"
keywords = ["remove, image, Docker"]
[menu.main]
parent = "smn_cli"
+++
<![end-metadata]-->

# rmi

    Usage: docker rmi [OPTIONS] IMAGE [IMAGE...]

    Remove one or more images

      -f, --force          Force removal of the image
      --help               Print usage
      --no-prune           Do not delete untagged parents

You can remove an image using its short or long ID, its tag, or its digest. If
an image has one or more tag or digest reference, you must remove all of them
before the image is removed.

    $ docker images
    REPOSITORY                TAG                 IMAGE ID            CREATED             SIZE
    test1                     latest              fd484f19954f        23 seconds ago      7 B (virtual 4.964 MB)
    test                      latest              fd484f19954f        23 seconds ago      7 B (virtual 4.964 MB)
    test2                     latest              fd484f19954f        23 seconds ago      7 B (virtual 4.964 MB)

    $ docker rmi fd484f19954f
    Error: Conflict, cannot delete image fd484f19954f because it is tagged in multiple repositories, use -f to force
    2013/12/11 05:47:16 Error: failed to remove one or more images

    $ docker rmi test1
    Untagged: test1:latest
    $ docker rmi test2
    Untagged: test2:latest

    $ docker images
    REPOSITORY                TAG                 IMAGE ID            CREATED             SIZE
    test                      latest              fd484f19954f        23 seconds ago      7 B (virtual 4.964 MB)
    $ docker rmi test
    Untagged: test:latest
    Deleted: fd484f19954f4920da7ff372b5067f5b7ddb2fd3830cecd17b96ea9e286ba5b8

If you use the `-f` flag and specify the image's short or long ID, then this
command untags and removes all images that match the specified ID.

    $ docker images
    REPOSITORY                TAG                 IMAGE ID            CREATED             SIZE
    test1                     latest              fd484f19954f        23 seconds ago      7 B (virtual 4.964 MB)
    test                      latest              fd484f19954f        23 seconds ago      7 B (virtual 4.964 MB)
    test2                     latest              fd484f19954f        23 seconds ago      7 B (virtual 4.964 MB)

    $ docker rmi -f fd484f19954f
    Untagged: test1:latest
    Untagged: test:latest
    Untagged: test2:latest
    Deleted: fd484f19954f4920da7ff372b5067f5b7ddb2fd3830cecd17b96ea9e286ba5b8

An image pulled by digest has no tag associated with it:

    $ docker images --digests
    REPOSITORY                     TAG       DIGEST                                                                    IMAGE ID        CREATED         VIRTUAL SIZE
    localhost:5000/test/busybox    <none>    sha256:cbbf2f9a99b47fc460d422812b6a5adff7dfee951d8fa2e4a98caa0382cfbdbf   4986bf8c1536    9 weeks ago     2.43 MB

To remove an image using its digest:

    $ docker rmi localhost:5000/test/busybox@sha256:cbbf2f9a99b47fc460d422812b6a5adff7dfee951d8fa2e4a98caa0382cfbdbf
    Untagged: localhost:5000/test/busybox@sha256:cbbf2f9a99b47fc460d422812b6a5adff7dfee951d8fa2e4a98caa0382cfbdbf
    Deleted: 4986bf8c15363d1c5d15512d5266f8777bfba4974ac56e3270e7760f6f0a8125
    Deleted: ea13149945cb6b1e746bf28032f02e9b5a793523481a0a18645fc77ad53c4ea2
    Deleted: df7546f9f060a2268024c8a230d8639878585defcc1bc6f79d2728a13957871b

Commit message:

Prune digest references when deleting by tag
When pulling an image with content trust enabled, two references are
created: a digest reference and a tag reference. Deleting by tag
wouldn't actually remove the image, because the digest reference keeps
it alive.

This change modifies the rmi logic so that digest references don't keep
an image alive. If the last tag referencing a given image is deleted,
any digest references to it will be removed as well, so the image can
actually get deleted. This fixes the usability problem with deletions
when content trust is in use, so something like "docker pull busybox;
docker rmi busybox" will work as expected.

Signed-off-by: Aaron Lehmann <aaron.lehmann@docker.com>
Upstream-commit: 2f048f73e122ab90b8f35a088b4be52bd255caad
Component: engine

components/engine/docs/reference/commandline/rmi.md, after:

<!--[metadata]>
+++
title = "rmi"
description = "The rmi command description and usage"
keywords = ["remove, image, Docker"]
[menu.main]
parent = "smn_cli"
+++
<![end-metadata]-->

# rmi

    Usage: docker rmi [OPTIONS] IMAGE [IMAGE...]

    Remove one or more images

      -f, --force          Force removal of the image
      --help               Print usage
      --no-prune           Do not delete untagged parents

You can remove an image using its short or long ID, its tag, or its digest. If
an image has one or more tag referencing it, you must remove all of them before
the image is removed. Digest references are removed automatically when an image
is removed by tag.

    $ docker images
    REPOSITORY                TAG                 IMAGE ID            CREATED             SIZE
    test1                     latest              fd484f19954f        23 seconds ago      7 B (virtual 4.964 MB)
    test                      latest              fd484f19954f        23 seconds ago      7 B (virtual 4.964 MB)
    test2                     latest              fd484f19954f        23 seconds ago      7 B (virtual 4.964 MB)

    $ docker rmi fd484f19954f
    Error: Conflict, cannot delete image fd484f19954f because it is tagged in multiple repositories, use -f to force
    2013/12/11 05:47:16 Error: failed to remove one or more images

    $ docker rmi test1
    Untagged: test1:latest
    $ docker rmi test2
    Untagged: test2:latest

    $ docker images
    REPOSITORY                TAG                 IMAGE ID            CREATED             SIZE
    test                      latest              fd484f19954f        23 seconds ago      7 B (virtual 4.964 MB)
    $ docker rmi test
    Untagged: test:latest
    Deleted: fd484f19954f4920da7ff372b5067f5b7ddb2fd3830cecd17b96ea9e286ba5b8

If you use the `-f` flag and specify the image's short or long ID, then this
command untags and removes all images that match the specified ID.

    $ docker images
    REPOSITORY                TAG                 IMAGE ID            CREATED             SIZE
    test1                     latest              fd484f19954f        23 seconds ago      7 B (virtual 4.964 MB)
    test                      latest              fd484f19954f        23 seconds ago      7 B (virtual 4.964 MB)
    test2                     latest              fd484f19954f        23 seconds ago      7 B (virtual 4.964 MB)

    $ docker rmi -f fd484f19954f
    Untagged: test1:latest
    Untagged: test:latest
    Untagged: test2:latest
    Deleted: fd484f19954f4920da7ff372b5067f5b7ddb2fd3830cecd17b96ea9e286ba5b8

An image pulled by digest has no tag associated with it:

    $ docker images --digests
    REPOSITORY                     TAG       DIGEST                                                                    IMAGE ID        CREATED         VIRTUAL SIZE
    localhost:5000/test/busybox    <none>    sha256:cbbf2f9a99b47fc460d422812b6a5adff7dfee951d8fa2e4a98caa0382cfbdbf   4986bf8c1536    9 weeks ago     2.43 MB

To remove an image using its digest:

    $ docker rmi localhost:5000/test/busybox@sha256:cbbf2f9a99b47fc460d422812b6a5adff7dfee951d8fa2e4a98caa0382cfbdbf
    Untagged: localhost:5000/test/busybox@sha256:cbbf2f9a99b47fc460d422812b6a5adff7dfee951d8fa2e4a98caa0382cfbdbf
    Deleted: 4986bf8c15363d1c5d15512d5266f8777bfba4974ac56e3270e7760f6f0a8125
    Deleted: ea13149945cb6b1e746bf28032f02e9b5a793523481a0a18645fc77ad53c4ea2
    Deleted: df7546f9f060a2268024c8a230d8639878585defcc1bc6f79d2728a13957871b
