components/engine/docs/reference/commandline/service_ls.md, before:

---
title: "service ls"
description: "The service ls command description and usage"
keywords: "service, ls"
---

<!-- This file is maintained within the docker/docker Github
     repository at https://github.com/docker/docker/. Make all
     pull requests against that repo. If you see this file in
     another repository, consider it read-only there, as it will
     periodically be overwritten by the definitive file. Pull
     requests which include edits to this file in other repositories
     will be rejected.
-->

# service ls

```Markdown
Usage:	docker service ls [OPTIONS]

List services

Aliases:
  ls, list

Options:
  -f, --filter filter   Filter output based on conditions provided
      --format string   Pretty-print services using a Go template
      --help            Print usage
  -q, --quiet           Only display IDs
```

## Description

This command when run targeting a manager, lists services are running in the
swarm.

## Examples

On a manager node:

```bash
$ docker service ls

ID            NAME      MODE        REPLICAS    IMAGE
c8wgl7q4ndfd  frontend  replicated  5/5         nginx:alpine
dmu1ept4cxcf  redis     replicated  3/3         redis:3.0.6
iwe3278osahj  mongo     global      7/7         mongo:3.3
```

The `REPLICAS` column shows both the *actual* and *desired* number of tasks for
the service.

### Filtering

The filtering flag (`-f` or `--filter`) format is of "key=value". If there is more
than one filter, then pass multiple flags (e.g., `--filter "foo=bar" --filter "bif=baz"`)

The currently supported filters are:

* [id](service_ls.md#id)
* [label](service_ls.md#label)
* [name](service_ls.md#name)

#### id

The `id` filter matches all or part of a service's id.

```bash
$ docker service ls -f "id=0bcjw"
ID            NAME   MODE        REPLICAS  IMAGE
0bcjwfh8ychr  redis  replicated  1/1       redis:3.0.6
```

#### label

The `label` filter matches services based on the presence of a `label` alone or
a `label` and a value.

The following filter matches all services with a `project` label regardless of
its value:

```bash
$ docker service ls --filter label=project
ID            NAME       MODE        REPLICAS  IMAGE
01sl1rp6nj5u  frontend2  replicated  1/1       nginx:alpine
36xvvwwauej0  frontend   replicated  5/5       nginx:alpine
74nzcxxjv6fq  backend    replicated  3/3       redis:3.0.6
```

The following filter matches only services with the `project` label with the
`project-a` value.

```bash
$ docker service ls --filter label=project=project-a
ID            NAME      MODE        REPLICAS  IMAGE
36xvvwwauej0  frontend  replicated  5/5       nginx:alpine
74nzcxxjv6fq  backend   replicated  3/3       redis:3.0.6
```

#### name

The `name` filter matches on all or part of a service's name.

The following filter matches services with a name containing `redis`.

```bash
$ docker service ls --filter name=redis
ID            NAME   MODE        REPLICAS  IMAGE
0bcjwfh8ychr  redis  replicated  1/1       redis:3.0.6
```

### Formatting

The formatting options (`--format`) pretty-prints services output
using a Go template.

Valid placeholders for the Go template are listed below:

Placeholder | Description
------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
`.ID`       | Service ID
`.Name`     | Service name
`.Mode`     | Service mode (replicated, global)
`.Replicas` | Service replicas
`.Image`    | Service image

When using the `--format` option, the `service ls` command will either
output the data exactly as the template declares or, when using the
`table` directive, includes column headers as well.

The following example uses a template without headers and outputs the
`ID`, `Mode`, and `Replicas` entries separated by a colon for all services:

```bash
$ docker service ls --format "{{.ID}}: {{.Mode}} {{.Replicas}}"

0zmvwuiu3vue: replicated 10/10
fm6uf97exkul: global 5/5
```

## Related commands

* [service create](service_create.md)
* [service inspect](service_inspect.md)
* [service logs](service_logs.md)
* [service rm](service_rm.md)
* [service scale](service_scale.md)
* [service ps](service_ps.md)
* [service update](service_update.md)

Commit message:

Support `--filter mode=global|replicated` for `docker service ls`
This fix tries to address the request in 31325 by adding
`--filter mode=global|replicated` to `docker service ls`.

As `docker service ls` has a `MODE` column by default, it is natural
to support `--filter mode=global|replicated` for `docker service ls`.

There are multiple ways to address the issue. One way is to pass
the filter of mode to SwarmKit, another way is to process the filter
of mode in the daemon.

This fix process the filter in the daemon.

Related docs has been updated.

An integration test has been added.

This fix fixes 31325.

Signed-off-by: Yong Tang <yong.tang.github@outlook.com>
Upstream-commit: 43a1bd564b5dbd835631cda102f68286c0d533e9
Component: engine

components/engine/docs/reference/commandline/service_ls.md, after:

---
title: "service ls"
description: "The service ls command description and usage"
keywords: "service, ls"
---

<!-- This file is maintained within the docker/docker Github
     repository at https://github.com/docker/docker/. Make all
     pull requests against that repo. If you see this file in
     another repository, consider it read-only there, as it will
     periodically be overwritten by the definitive file. Pull
     requests which include edits to this file in other repositories
     will be rejected.
-->

# service ls

```Markdown
Usage:	docker service ls [OPTIONS]

List services

Aliases:
  ls, list

Options:
  -f, --filter filter   Filter output based on conditions provided
      --format string   Pretty-print services using a Go template
      --help            Print usage
  -q, --quiet           Only display IDs
```

## Description

This command when run targeting a manager, lists services are running in the
swarm.

## Examples

On a manager node:

```bash
$ docker service ls

ID            NAME      MODE        REPLICAS    IMAGE
c8wgl7q4ndfd  frontend  replicated  5/5         nginx:alpine
dmu1ept4cxcf  redis     replicated  3/3         redis:3.0.6
iwe3278osahj  mongo     global      7/7         mongo:3.3
```

The `REPLICAS` column shows both the *actual* and *desired* number of tasks for
the service.

### Filtering

The filtering flag (`-f` or `--filter`) format is of "key=value". If there is more
than one filter, then pass multiple flags (e.g., `--filter "foo=bar" --filter "bif=baz"`)

The currently supported filters are:

* [id](service_ls.md#id)
* [label](service_ls.md#label)
* [mode](service_ls.md#mode)
* [name](service_ls.md#name)

#### id

The `id` filter matches all or part of a service's id.

```bash
$ docker service ls -f "id=0bcjw"
ID            NAME   MODE        REPLICAS  IMAGE
0bcjwfh8ychr  redis  replicated  1/1       redis:3.0.6
```

#### label

The `label` filter matches services based on the presence of a `label` alone or
a `label` and a value.

The following filter matches all services with a `project` label regardless of
its value:

```bash
$ docker service ls --filter label=project
ID            NAME       MODE        REPLICAS  IMAGE
01sl1rp6nj5u  frontend2  replicated  1/1       nginx:alpine
36xvvwwauej0  frontend   replicated  5/5       nginx:alpine
74nzcxxjv6fq  backend    replicated  3/3       redis:3.0.6
```

The following filter matches only services with the `project` label with the
`project-a` value.

```bash
$ docker service ls --filter label=project=project-a
ID            NAME      MODE        REPLICAS  IMAGE
36xvvwwauej0  frontend  replicated  5/5       nginx:alpine
74nzcxxjv6fq  backend   replicated  3/3       redis:3.0.6
```

#### mode

The `mode` filter matches on the mode (either `replicated` or `global`) of a service.

The following filter matches only `global` services.

```bash
$ docker service ls --filter mode=global
ID                  NAME                MODE                REPLICAS            IMAGE
w7y0v2yrn620        top                 global              1/1                 busybox
```

#### name

The `name` filter matches on all or part of a service's name.

The following filter matches services with a name containing `redis`.

```bash
$ docker service ls --filter name=redis
ID            NAME   MODE        REPLICAS  IMAGE
0bcjwfh8ychr  redis  replicated  1/1       redis:3.0.6
```

### Formatting

The formatting options (`--format`) pretty-prints services output
using a Go template.

Valid placeholders for the Go template are listed below:

Placeholder | Description
------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
`.ID`       | Service ID
`.Name`     | Service name
`.Mode`     | Service mode (replicated, global)
`.Replicas` | Service replicas
`.Image`    | Service image

When using the `--format` option, the `service ls` command will either
output the data exactly as the template declares or, when using the
`table` directive, includes column headers as well.

The following example uses a template without headers and outputs the
`ID`, `Mode`, and `Replicas` entries separated by a colon for all services:

```bash
$ docker service ls --format "{{.ID}}: {{.Mode}} {{.Replicas}}"

0zmvwuiu3vue: replicated 10/10
fm6uf97exkul: global 5/5
```

## Related commands

* [service create](service_create.md)
* [service inspect](service_inspect.md)
* [service logs](service_logs.md)
* [service rm](service_rm.md)
* [service scale](service_scale.md)
* [service ps](service_ps.md)
* [service update](service_update.md)
