components/engine/docs/reference/commandline/update.md, before:

---
title: "update"
description: "The update command description and usage"
keywords: ["resources, update, dynamically"]
---

<!-- This file is maintained within the docker/docker Github
     repository at https://github.com/docker/docker/. Make all
     pull requests against that repo. If you see this file in
     another repository, consider it read-only there, as it will
     periodically be overwritten by the definitive file. Pull
     requests which include edits to this file in other repositories
     will be rejected.
-->

## update

```markdown
Usage:  docker update [OPTIONS] CONTAINER [CONTAINER...]

Update configuration of one or more containers

Options:
      --blkio-weight value          Block IO (relative weight), between 10 and 1000
      --cpu-period int              Limit CPU CFS (Completely Fair Scheduler) period
      --cpu-quota int               Limit CPU CFS (Completely Fair Scheduler) quota
  -c, --cpu-shares int              CPU shares (relative weight)
      --cpuset-cpus string          CPUs in which to allow execution (0-3, 0,1)
      --cpuset-mems string          MEMs in which to allow execution (0-3, 0,1)
      --help                        Print usage
      --kernel-memory string        Kernel memory limit
  -m, --memory string               Memory limit
      --memory-reservation string   Memory soft limit
      --memory-swap string          Swap limit equal to memory plus swap: '-1' to enable unlimited swap
      --restart string              Restart policy to apply when a container exits
```

The `docker update` command dynamically updates container configuration.
You can use this command to prevent containers from consuming too many
resources from their Docker host.  With a single command, you can place
limits on a single container or on many. To specify more than one container,
provide space-separated list of container names or IDs.

With the exception of the `--kernel-memory` option, you can specify these
options on a running or a stopped container. On kernel version older than
4.6, you can only update `--kernel-memory` on a stopped container or on
a running container with kernel memory initialized.

## Examples

The following sections illustrate ways to use this command.

### Update a container's cpu-shares

To limit a container's cpu-shares to 512, first identify the container
name or ID. You can use `docker ps` to find these values. You can also
use the ID returned from the `docker run` command.  Then, do the following:

```bash
$ docker update --cpu-shares 512 abebf7571666
```

### Update a container with cpu-shares and memory

To update multiple resource configurations for multiple containers:

```bash
$ docker update --cpu-shares 512 -m 300M abebf7571666 hopeful_morse
```

### Update a container's kernel memory constraints

You can update a container's kernel memory limit using the `--kernel-memory`
option. On kernel version older than 4.6, this option can be updated on a
running container only if the container was started with `--kernel-memory`.
If the container was started *without* `--kernel-memory` you need to stop
the container before updating kernel memory.

For example, if you started a container with this command:

```bash
$ docker run -dit --name test --kernel-memory 50M ubuntu bash
```

You can update kernel memory while the container is running:

```bash
$ docker update --kernel-memory 80M test
```

If you started a container *without* kernel memory initialized:

```bash
$ docker run -dit --name test2 --memory 300M ubuntu bash
```

Update kernel memory of running container `test2` will fail. You need to stop
the container before updating the `--kernel-memory` setting. The next time you
start it, the container uses the new value.

Kernel version newer than (include) 4.6 does not have this limitation, you
can use `--kernel-memory` the same way as other options.

### Update a container's restart policy

You can change a container's restart policy on a running container. The new
restart policy takes effect instantly after you run `docker update` on a
container.

To update restart policy for one or more containers:

```bash
$ docker update --restart=on-failure:3 abebf7571666 hopeful_morse
```

Note that if the container is started with "--rm" flag, you cannot update the restart
policy for it. The `AutoRemove` and `RestartPolicy` are mutually exclusive for the
container.

Commit message:

Implementing support for --cpu-rt-period and --cpu-rt-runtime so that containers may specify these cgroup values at runtime. This will allow processes to change their priority to real-time within the container when CONFIG_RT_GROUP_SCHED is enabled in the kernel. See #22380.
Also added sanity checks for the new --cpu-rt-runtime and --cpu-rt-period
flags to ensure that that the kernel supports these features and that
runtime is not greater than period.

Daemon will support a --cpu-rt-runtime flag to initialize the parent
cgroup on startup, this prevents the administrator from alotting runtime
to docker after each restart.

There are additional checks that could be added but maybe too far? Check
parent cgroups to ensure values are <= parent, inspecting rtprio ulimit
and issuing a warning.

Signed-off-by: Erik St. Martin <alakriti@gmail.com>
Upstream-commit: 56f77d5ade945b3b8816a6c8acb328b7c6dce9a7
Component: engine

components/engine/docs/reference/commandline/update.md, after:

---
title: "update"
description: "The update command description and usage"
keywords: ["resources, update, dynamically"]
---

<!-- This file is maintained within the docker/docker Github
     repository at https://github.com/docker/docker/. Make all
     pull requests against that repo. If you see this file in
     another repository, consider it read-only there, as it will
     periodically be overwritten by the definitive file. Pull
     requests which include edits to this file in other repositories
     will be rejected.
-->

## update

```markdown
Usage:  docker update [OPTIONS] CONTAINER [CONTAINER...]

Update configuration of one or more containers

Options:
      --blkio-weight value          Block IO (relative weight), between 10 and 1000
      --cpu-period int              Limit CPU CFS (Completely Fair Scheduler) period
      --cpu-quota int               Limit CPU CFS (Completely Fair Scheduler) quota
  -c, --cpu-shares int              CPU shares (relative weight)
      --cpu-rt-period int           Limit the CPU real-time period in microseconds
      --cpu-rt-runtime int          Limit the CPU real-time runtime in microseconds
      --cpuset-cpus string          CPUs in which to allow execution (0-3, 0,1)
      --cpuset-mems string          MEMs in which to allow execution (0-3, 0,1)
      --help                        Print usage
      --kernel-memory string        Kernel memory limit
  -m, --memory string               Memory limit
      --memory-reservation string   Memory soft limit
      --memory-swap string          Swap limit equal to memory plus swap: '-1' to enable unlimited swap
      --restart string              Restart policy to apply when a container exits
```

The `docker update` command dynamically updates container configuration.
You can use this command to prevent containers from consuming too many
resources from their Docker host.  With a single command, you can place
limits on a single container or on many. To specify more than one container,
provide space-separated list of container names or IDs.

With the exception of the `--kernel-memory` option, you can specify these
options on a running or a stopped container. On kernel version older than
4.6, you can only update `--kernel-memory` on a stopped container or on
a running container with kernel memory initialized.

## Examples

The following sections illustrate ways to use this command.

### Update a container's cpu-shares

To limit a container's cpu-shares to 512, first identify the container
name or ID. You can use `docker ps` to find these values. You can also
use the ID returned from the `docker run` command.  Then, do the following:

```bash
$ docker update --cpu-shares 512 abebf7571666
```

### Update a container with cpu-shares and memory

To update multiple resource configurations for multiple containers:

```bash
$ docker update --cpu-shares 512 -m 300M abebf7571666 hopeful_morse
```

### Update a container's kernel memory constraints

You can update a container's kernel memory limit using the `--kernel-memory`
option. On kernel version older than 4.6, this option can be updated on a
running container only if the container was started with `--kernel-memory`.
If the container was started *without* `--kernel-memory` you need to stop
the container before updating kernel memory.

For example, if you started a container with this command:

```bash
$ docker run -dit --name test --kernel-memory 50M ubuntu bash
```

You can update kernel memory while the container is running:

```bash
$ docker update --kernel-memory 80M test
```

If you started a container *without* kernel memory initialized:

```bash
$ docker run -dit --name test2 --memory 300M ubuntu bash
```

Update kernel memory of running container `test2` will fail. You need to stop
the container before updating the `--kernel-memory` setting. The next time you
start it, the container uses the new value.

Kernel version newer than (include) 4.6 does not have this limitation, you
can use `--kernel-memory` the same way as other options.

### Update a container's restart policy

You can change a container's restart policy on a running container. The new
restart policy takes effect instantly after you run `docker update` on a
container.

To update restart policy for one or more containers:

```bash
$ docker update --restart=on-failure:3 abebf7571666 hopeful_morse
```

Note that if the container is started with "--rm" flag, you cannot update the restart
policy for it. The `AutoRemove` and `RestartPolicy` are mutually exclusive for the
container.
