components/engine/docs/extend/plugins_network.md, before:

<!--[metadata]>
+++
title = "Docker network driver plugins"
description = "Network drive plugins."
keywords = ["Examples, Usage, plugins, docker, documentation, user guide"]
[menu.main]
parent = "mn_extend"
weight=-1
+++
<![end-metadata]-->

# Docker network driver plugins

Docker supports network driver plugins via
[LibNetwork](https://github.com/docker/libnetwork). Network driver plugins are
implemented as "remote drivers" for LibNetwork, which shares plugin
infrastructure with Docker. In effect this means that network driver plugins
are activated in the same way as other plugins, and use the same kind of
protocol.

## Using network driver plugins

The means of installing and running a network driver plugin will depend on the
particular plugin.

Once running however, network driver plugins are used just like the built-in
network drivers: by being mentioned as a driver in network-oriented Docker
commands. For example,

    docker network create -d weave mynet

Some network driver plugins are listed in [plugins](plugins.md)

The network thus created is owned by the plugin, so subsequent commands
referring to that network will also be run through the plugin such as,

    docker run --net=mynet busybox top

## Network driver plugin protocol

The network driver protocol, additional to the plugin activation call, is
documented as part of LibNetwork:
[https://github.com/docker/libnetwork/blob/master/docs/remote.md](https://github.com/docker/libnetwork/blob/master/docs/remote.md).

# Related GitHub PRs and issues

Please record your feedback in the following issue, on the usual
Google Groups, or the IRC channel #docker-network.

 - [#14083](https://github.com/docker/docker/issues/14083) Feedback on
   experimental networking features

Commit message:

First pass at consolidating Removing old networking.md Updating dockernetworks.md with images Adding information on network plugins Adding blurb about links to docker networking Updating the working documentation Adding Overlay Getting Started Downplaying links by removing refs/examples, adding refs/examples for network. Updating getting started to reflect networks not links Pulling out old network material Updating per discussion with Madhu to add Default docs section Updating with bridge default Fix bad merge Updating with new cluster-advertise behavior Update working and NetworkSettings examples Correcting example for default bridge discovery behavior Entering comments Fixing broken Markdown Syntax Updating with comments Updating all the links
Signed-off-by: Mary Anthony <mary@docker.com>
Upstream-commit: 9ef855f9e5fa8077468bda5ce43155318c58e60e
Component: engine

components/engine/docs/extend/plugins_network.md, after:

<!--[metadata]>
+++
title = "Docker network driver plugins"
description = "Network driver plugins."
keywords = ["Examples, Usage, plugins, docker, documentation, user guide"]
[menu.main]
parent = "mn_extend"
weight=-1
+++
<![end-metadata]-->

# Docker network driver plugins

Docker network plugins enable Docker deployments to be extended to support a
wide range of networking technologies, such as VXLAN, IPVLAN, MACVLAN or
something completely different. Network driver plugins are supported via the
LibNetwork project. Each plugin is implemented asa  "remote driver" for
LibNetwork, which shares plugin infrastructure with Docker. Effectively,
network driver plugins are activated in the same way as other plugins, and use
the same kind of protocol.

## Using network driver plugins

The means of installing and running a network driver plugin depend on the
particular plugin. So, be sure to install your plugin according to the
instructions obtained from the plugin developer.

Once running however, network driver plugins are used just like the built-in
network drivers: by being mentioned as a driver in network-oriented Docker
commands. For example,

    $ docker network create --driver weave mynet

Some network driver plugins are listed in [plugins](plugins.md)

The `mynet` network is now owned by `weave`, so subsequent commands
referring to that network will be sent to the plugin,

    $ docker run --net=mynet busybox top


## Write a network plugin

Network plugins implement the [Docker plugin
API](https://docs.docker.com/extend/plugin_api/) and the network plugin protocol

## Network plugin protocol

The network driver protocol, in addition to the plugin activation call, is
documented as part of libnetwork:
[https://github.com/docker/libnetwork/blob/master/docs/remote.md](https://github.com/docker/libnetwork/blob/master/docs/remote.md).

# Related Information

To interact with the Docker maintainers and other interested users, se the IRC channel `#docker-network`.

-  [Docker networks feature overview](../userguide/networking/index.md)
-  The [LibNetwork](https://github.com/docker/libnetwork) project
